foreign
Scott Pugh I've uh I'm the VP of sales
and GM of figma here in APAC and one of
the cultural values at figma is about
building community so really pleased to
be here and give what I've learned give
a little bit back to the to the sasta
community from what I've learned over
the years of uh of building SAS sales
teams here
um yeah I'd like to call it I'm sure
there's a lot of people in in the room
here that could get up and do a present
presentation like this and have have
learned a lot from your years and I look
forward to networking and learning with
you as well and yeah I just want to call
out a couple of the people that I've
learned a lot from my career I've got
Pierre Berlin and Dan dakum two people
that I've followed the last three
companies and a lot I've shared today
I've learned from from these guys as
well and before I share my story I want
to get a bit more of an understanding of
people in the room and and the companies
that you work for and their location so
if you can just raise your hands and if
the the company you work for or the port
or the majority of your Port codes if
you're a VC if you're based in Southeast
Asia
okay there's a few there in in Greater
China region
no ANZ
uh India
is good for you from India um any from
emea any other companies who are
headquarters
okay and then he from North America
okay and just now I'm from North America
and the reason I asked that is that the
majority of my experience has come from
helping U.S companies open up in Asia
Pacific and um and so yeah I'm gonna
share a bit and what we're going to talk
about today is Recruitment enablement
and building culture and it's something
that U.S companies actually do a really
really good job at so I'd like to share
some of these learnings so
a bit about my story so
um I started working in SAS around 11
years ago and I started working at
LinkedIn any LinkedIn alumni in the in
the crowd yeah sweater over there nice
one
um so yeah I joined uh joining 2012
prior to that I'd been working in in
media and online media for many years
and uh and yeah this is a picture here
of me and my old boss Adam Gregory on
the first day of the Hong Kong office we
launched the Hong Kong office there and
now I know what you're thinking that
there's something like eerily familiar
about that photo right
yeah it's like it's very similar isn't
it it's like eerily similar now I know
what you're also thinking did he
honestly just liken himself to Steve
Jobs no definitely not I just wanted to
call out the Adam Gregory my old boss is
a doppelganger for Steve Wozniak so I
like uh he's just as handsome yeah
um but yeah we had amazing amazing seven
years at LinkedIn and I think we I was
managing the LTS Talent Solutions
business and uh working with the
Recruitment and staffing companies we
grew to a team of 20 people over 20
million ARR and it was very formative
for me in terms of learning about
building culturing companies and and
there's a lot that I'll share today that
I learned from from that experience 2019
I joined mixpanel leading product
analytics uh company
um the leader in the region I'd say
there might be someone speaking later
that would uh that will contest that but
um but yeah leader in the region and we
started with a team of uh of like just
seven people in 2019 and we scaled to
over 50 in uh in the three and a half
four years that I was there
when I joined we were around 12 of
global ARR here in APAC and by the uh at
the end finished up the end of this year
with 20 uh 20 of global ARR so it was
real hyper growth through through 300
Revenue over those years really fun ride
and shout out to the mixed panel crew
over here I can see a couple of xmix
handlers there yes
um and so
in the last year four months ago I got
the opportunity to join figma to help
launch the APAC business for um for fig
man for those of you who don't know we
are designing UI ux design software but
really what we're doing is transforming
the way companies build products from
brainstorming ideation whiteboarding
through to the design through to the
handoff for the development and in a
really collaborative unbelievable
transformation transformational platform
so incredible tool and we're building an
incredible team here's a couple of the
figma crew in in the crowd here as well
and so we've got 10 people on the ground
now we're going to be scaling to all 50
by the end of this year so really really
exciting Journey many of you would have
heard about the the imminent acquisition
for from Adobe and obviously Jason
mentioned it earlier as well I had
nothing to do with that unfortunately I
can't I can't claim to have had any
influence on that it went through before
I joined but I'm really happy to be part
of the next stage of the growth story
for figma
Keen to talk to you all about how my
experience of scaling SAS teams whilst
building culture and it's broken down to
three areas starting with the
recruitment how to hire the best talent
to scale your sales organization
how to enablement and how to set those
that team up for success and invest in
their professional growth and
finally but probably most importantly
building a culture and developing
subcultures within sales that enables
the team to successfully scale
and so we'll kick off just talking about
the recruitment piece and
there are two types of SAS companies
those that are either
a category creator
or they're they're a challenger of an
incumbent technology and in either
scenario
a lot of the time you can't you find the
you can't hire from a competition so if
you're kind of created there is no
competition to hire Force you need to be
really creative on the type of profiles
that you hide that you hire same if
you're a challenger you don't
necessarily unless you're Salesforce
with Oracle you don't really want to
hire from your uh from the company
you're trying to disrupt at LinkedIn for
example we were changing the the
um the job board business with our
talent solution but we didn't really
hire people from job boards because they
were transactional sales people and we
really needed Solutions based SAS sales
people so we had to really um think uh
think broader around the type of talent
and similarly at figma there really
isn't sort of a competitive technology
really within our space and we don't
like to hire people from sort of
adjacent technology so
what we've uh what I like to be able to
do is actually think about some of the
the personality and the startup skills
and and
um and the softer skills to be able to
to hire from and
a couple of things to point out here is
just around the grit and resilience are
really important to me and they should
be for any especially start up SAS sales
people people that can deal with
rejection people that can go through
tough situations and um and be able to
bounce back through them
and this hiring profile should really
Define the type of hiring process you do
and the type of questions and the kind
of uh um that you ask of of candidates
diversity is really important when
scaling you're scanning your teams and
for me what this means is representing
the customers that you serve or that you
aspire to serve and here in the Asia
Pacific region obviously you're
extremely diverse region covering many
many different uh many different
geographies ethnicities cultures and uh
and yeah it's important to represent
those but diversity within gender as I
said with the ethnicity but I think an
important one is introvert extrovert
no one wants to work in a team where
there's a group of extroverts all
shouting over each other so that's a
really good uh good balance to have
um and in addition to that educational
background uh sexual orientation there
is however one diversity that you
definitely don't want in your
organization and that's positivity and
negativity if there is any negativity
within your business you need to cut
that out it could be like a virus and it
can bring the entire team down
and a way that I'd identify this is
through the recruiting process making
sure that you're asking questions and
that around and if any candidate ever
gives negative feedback on their prior
companies or their prior boss immediate
red flag and it's something that would
mean that I'd discount them from the
hiring process
so moving on to hiring process and and
your recruitment partner
I probably spend 30 of my time
recruiting at the moment we're in we're
in hyper hyper growth mode and
if I was to and having a an exclusive
recruitment partner either in-house or
an RPO but someone that's exclusively
helping you will make sure that they are
focused on the outcome and only
delivering candidates to you that are
the right fit for your company if you're
working with contingency recruitment
companies they're focused on a fee
they're focused on getting a getting a
deal done and so having an exclusive
partner that you can really work very
closely with that can understand your
hiring profile deeply will make sure
that you minimize the amount of time you
spend interviewing so I probably reject
five or ten percent of the candidates
that both my recruiter or in-house
recruiter at mixpanel were used and that
works with us and we use a company
called hire as our RPO for figma and my
rejection rate for that first interview
is very very low
I think getting the right hiring panel
in place is is important the right
questions around the hiring profile that
I mentioned earlier
doing really in-depth background checks
and back channel background checks often
the referees that a candidate will give
they're generally always going to there
you know they're always going to give
positive feedback they're hand chosen
use your network to find out what they
really are like to work with to get a
360 view of the candidate
and then finally for me it's around
creating an exceptional candidate
experience we talk a lot about creating
great experience for our customers and I
believe that we should do so for our
candidates as well we want a candidate
that even if they've been unsuccessful
in the process to be able to go and
speak to their friends their Network and
say spoke to figma
it wasn't successful but really like the
company like the product like the team
you should definitely go and speak to
them as well it's gonna it's gonna
really help your your employer brand
and then hiring Talent magnets hiring
people that have a track record of
bringing people with them to their new
companies and that people follow as I
mentioned I've my last uh three
companies I've worked out I've followed
people there
establishing a a really a generous
referral fee is a great way to to sort
of fuel that as well uh we offer like
around 5 000 very generous around 5 000
us referral fee I think we did the same
a mix panel
20 of our Highs at figma are from from
referrals and the team my initial team
that we've uh that we've built in Asia
Pacific around 60 have been from my
personal Network as well
now
there's been it's a pretty tough time in
the in the SAS industry at the moment
and I think a lot of companies are over
hiring at the moment and actually when I
joined mixpanel I remember my first day
I expected to hire around it was around
10 to 14 I was in my interview process
that would build the sales team too
initially for APAC and on my first day
uh boss sat down and he said you need to
hire 22 sales people and you need to
hire them tomorrow and I was like okay
well it's a tough hiring market and and
then I and then at that point we didn't
have any marketing we didn't have SDR we
didn't have enablement we didn't have
any partnership program set up and so
really I it was a concern for me that we
weren't going to be able to help these
people be successful
um
one of the recommendations here is to
like stagger your recruitment process
what we do at figma is we we set an
annual plan or like a hiring plan but
then we only enable we only released
that plan every quarter for the for the
uh two quarters ahead so it means that
we can assess where the business is
especially in this constantly changing
Market are we is it the right time to
add on capacity going into into the next
quarter
okay moving on
enablement you've hired the team how do
you set them up for success and invest
in their their professional growth
I love this quote I'm sure many of you
have seen it before CFO asks what
happens if we invest in developing our
people and they leave us what happens if
we don't and they stay and I've been
lucky to work for for some incredible
companies that have invested in my
enablement over the years and actually
at LinkedIn for I'm sweater or a member
when you first day you joined LinkedIn
they tell you when you leave LinkedIn
so on the very first day they're talking
about when you're going to leave the
company we want you to go away having
changed the trajectory of your career so
we want you to leave the company being a
better professional from the than the
day you joined uh and yeah it's a it's a
really nice way to think it's very
pragmatic right you're not going to
spend you know we're not in Japan we
don't work for the same company for
entire life and uh and so it's a really
upfront social contract that you're
going to leave eventually hey let's make
this the best experience that we
possibly can and so investing in the
enablement process is a really important
thing to do and part of that is hiring
sales Ops and hiring an enablement team
really early on
then investing in the right tools to be
able to help that enablement and so at
mixpanel and early doors when you don't
have a really robust enablement program
you might use a sort of project
management software or we use notion at
mixpanel to build out an enablement plan
at early days at figma we had Asana to
be able to go through the process
we've kind of moved on here uh figma now
we use work ramp and we've got a very
clearly built out enablement program
that that covers like the the product it
covers the um the the market and on all
of our customers as well and it's like a
one month onboarding program to set
people up
I'm also a massive fan of Revenue
intelligence tools uh we use gong a mix
panel we use Chorus at figma but this
enables people to actually go and listen
to calls and be able to learn from what
some of the other sales people have done
as a sales leader it's really good to
truly analyze deals on whether they're
real or not and to be able to go a bit
more in depth uh but yeah a big big fan
of those those products as well
as you're scaling quickly I I have like
10 reports at the moment and uh and it's
difficult to be there for for everyone
all the time and to be able to coach
each individually and to setting up a
buddy system where you have your more
tenured sales people supporting and
enabling and training your newer hires
is a really good program and a scalable
program to set up
it creates an opportunity for for those
um for those people to you know learn
coaching to be able to learn leadership
skills and be able to set up for future
leadership
um and as I say it just makes it really
scalable uh and and so I recommend uh
setting up this kind of Buddy system
and then it's important to
to show empathetic leadership to give
room for your team to fail to to grow to
learn I think that we're often so fast
to say if you're not successful then you
know you may be going on a performance
plan really quickly but you really
should sort of trust your hiring process
if you've hired the right people then
you need to then trust that they're
going to be successful and if they're
not there's probably some other things
you need to fix in your business whether
it be product whether it be the market
they're covering
Etc
and uh so this is going to be especially
the case in Enterprise where the deal
cycle can be much longer and uh and so
focusing on both the quality and the
quantity of their output and their work
is uh is really what uh what you should
be looking at
and then setting correct goals for the
team and for the sales team and and the
right ramp for their for their quotas as
well uh typically we see like a five
month ramp for for an Enterprise sales
rep and for SMB mid-markets typically
around sort of your two to three months
um so give that room for people to sort
of to to grow into
um to to achieving their numbers
it's also a good idea to potentially
reassess the quotas and so maybe doing
six month quotas especially if you're in
hyper growth mode predicting a year
ahead is quite quite difficult so you
might want to do six months and then you
can either reduce or increase depending
on uh what's happening with the market
and the product and the um and the
product Market fit
okay last but not least uh and for those
that have worked with me in the past or
the companies that I've worked out I
know culture is I've extremely extreme
I'm sorry I'm very very passionate about
and I love this quote from Peter Drucker
a culture eats strategy for breakfast it
doesn't mean you don't need strategy it
just it means that that cult without
culture is absolutely absolutely useless
and uh at LinkedIn uh Jeff weiner was
um joined I think it was around 2008 and
he'd uh he really sort of profoundly
changed what the culture of that company
was he joined when it was 400 people and
it had come he'd come from Yahoo which
is very traditional media online Media
Company who didn't really value culture
and values it's like BS it was that
stuff that was written up on the wall
that no one really adhered or or or
listened to and then when he joined
LinkedIn he went through a a process of
codifying the the culture and values and
bearing in money wasn't the founder you
know he was a kind of Reid Hoffman talks
about him is like every company has many
different founding movements and Jeff
joining sort of five years into this
life cycle of the company it was a
founding moment and he worked with the
guy called arvind Rajan who was the
previous GM of aipac for uh for LinkedIn
and was uh at HR he ran HR at the time
and uh and essentially what they did is
they created this sort of belief system
and this culture and my wife used to
tell me about like drinking the Kool-Aid
that I was like obsessed by I still am
as you can tell
um but the um essentially what it does
if you when you build culture it helps
democratize decision making across the
business it builds a framework to enable
people to make decisions without having
to to go up and and ask other people
um and
at figma we've got we've also been
through a similar process so it was only
three or four years ago that we
re-codified these uh these culture and
values and just recently and this is I
talk about like you need to iterate on
those culture and values and just
recently we announced that our fifth
culture and value which is play and for
us it just I've only been at the company
four months but it really is a fun
playful company to work for we just got
back from our sko in Miami and those are
there as like an absolute rocking time
but they um but also it epitomizes the
products that we sell for anyone that's
used fig Jam or figma it's an amazing
fun engaging and playful product to use
so consistently iterating on your
culture and values and don't just having
them be set in stone they can be they
can evolve over time and they change
with the scale of your business and the
stage of your business
now it's also important to align your
teams around your culture and values I
think it's all very well Dylan our CEO
set in a cultural values here they are
all going to live by them but it's
important for the team to really take
them on board and feel a certain degree
of ownership with those culture and
values and when I joined mixed panel
early doors we actually got in an
external trainer a company explore
performance friend of mine Grant ax
Rawlinson call out to him he's Legend I
recommend you work with him but he's a
external trainer and he came in and he
did an experiential session around
decision making using our culture and
values
and we also did a breakout session going
through each of our five culture and
values at mixpanel and defining what
behavioral statement we wanted to put
behind those so it went from okay this
is the company's culture and values you
know go live by them to actually us
saying what they mean to us and having
some degree of ownership over them and
what came out of that is that we
actually aligned around one team as our
main culture and values and we we came
up with this uh this behavioral tenant
which is to support each other to win
together and honestly I I believe that
this was a really important part of our
success over the last few years and
continues to be and uh and yeah like we
2021 90 of people hitting Target we uh
we delivered 110 of plan three years
running as a as a region and largely
because everyone adhered to this
statement that the team had come up with
and bought into
it's tough out there in SAS at the
moment isn't it
there's lots of external factors that
are impacting what we do I'm a big fan
of Simon sinek and uh I don't know if
you've read the book If anyone that's
read the book Leaders Eat Last I
recommend you get your hands on it it's
a it's a great book and he talks in in
the book around the concept of creating
a safe space
within your organization and focusing on
the the external factors as being the
danger and that could be macroeconomic
it could be Market it can be competitors
but essentially you want to create an
environment within your organization
where you feel safe and that you feel
that you're you're looked after by your
by your colleagues by your leaders and
an example of this being like before I
worked in SAS I worked in a media
company in Hong Kong and your
environment can create the culture as
well and in that company we're in in the
middle of uh one uh middle of um lancois
Fong and in that building all of the
offices that for the executives were
round the outside of the office they all
had this fantastic view of the Hong Kong
Harbor and everything and then all the
Minions were in the middle and they were
like surveying over there over the
minions and it it had this really
insipid culture of this dictator-style
culture and honestly felt there was a
certain amount of presenteeism you
couldn't leave your desk until your boss
left and it was honestly like really
horrible horrible culture
switch that to when I joined LinkedIn
and it walked into this environment
where it was a environment of autonomy
and trust and going down and do it I've
never worked harder in my life as an
individual contributor and uh and great
experience and similarly with the office
all of the all of the exec's office
although many of them worked on the
floor were actually on the set in the
center part of the building and all of
the sales people had the window seats
looking out for the amazing views and uh
and
um yeah so I think the your environment
can create the culture as well now one
thing just to note on here
your work is not your family
you're not going to put your kid on a
performance plan I I mean saying that I
probably need to put my own performance
plan to brush his teeth and go to bed on
time at night but I'm not going to fire
him maybe but uh
but yeah it's important to note that
like remember your work isn't isn't your
family
and so as Leaders we need to lead from
the front we need to uh
when I was at LinkedIn we had a leader
called Mike gamson that used to talk
about
as a leader you need to set the standard
you need to demonstrate the standard and
then you need to hold people accountable
to that standard and that goes with the
culture and values it also goes with
many other things within the
organization for example at figma the
interview process that we do for sales
people we do very similar for our sales
leaders so me coming on as the as the GM
of vpsls of the region I had to do a
discovery and demo to our cro and I had
to demo the product to our cro likewise
our enablement I had to go through
exactly the same sales training that our
account Executives and account managers
go through as well
okay now lastly
creating an environment of recognition
and and feedback I think is a great way
to to build culture and at mixpanel we
every qbr we used to actually give do it
put out a survey just a Google Sheets
Google
um where people would vote across four
categories the the Rookie of the quarter
the cross-functional partner silent hero
and the MVP and we used to actually get
people to give verbatim feedback about
each other and uh and it was all very
positive we used to share it with the uh
I used to share all of the bait and
feedback and every quarter we'd do this
and it would uh it would create a really
good environment of people recognizing
and and especially people that weren't
in sales like earning big commission
checks those that were just in the
supporting function gave them the
recognition and
um what the Yeah and then we would share
this publicly but I am also a great
believer in uh in giving constructive
feedback as well so I I don't know if
any of you have read the book radical
Candor by Kim Scott but I highly
recommend it and really it's about
giving direct feedback but really caring
about people as well uh now with that
it's important that if you're giving
constructive feedback it needs to be in
person one to one but if you give you
positive feedback doing externally and
letting other people hear it gives the
gives the nice feels for for everyone as
well
very good so that pretty much uh that
pretty much caps what I wanted to run
through today so
um really if you can combine these three
areas of uh recruiting the the best
talent uh enabling them to be successful
and setting and building a culture that
makes people love what they do and uh
and and do good work then your sales
team can be the engine for you becoming
the next billion dollar startup
foreign
[Music]